# How to choose a suitable floor for your home?

When you are ready to decorate your house, flooring must be a very important choice.But when you go looking for the floor that suits you full market, can you feel a bit confused?Why is that?Because there are too many flooring products on the market, such as laminate flooring, SPC flooring, WPC flooring, LVT flooring, LOOSE LAY flooring and so on, then how to choose a floor suitable for your home, today I will talk to you about this topic, to do a floor knowledge of the popularization. Advantages and disadvantages of laminate flooring ✔Advantage 1.Nursing is simple, bright as new, not embedded dirt, easy to clean; 2.Aggrandizement floor quality is stable, damage not easily; 3.Aggrandizement floor as a result of the structure distinctive concern, did not have so tall to lumber requirement, and can make full use of material, because this price is lower than what real wood floor wants a lot of low. ✔Disadvantages 1.Aggrandizement floor cannot enter water, cause foaming, deformation because of bibulous expansion very easily otherwise; 2.The decorative effect is poor. Let’s talk Vinyl -- specifically Vinyl plank flooring. Vinyl plank flooring is growing in popularity in both residential and commercial applications. We’ll get into LVP, some SPC and some WPC for good measure, as well as the differences between them, and the pros and cons of each. Perhaps the most popular vinyl plank flooring product on the market today, and growing quickly, is Rigid Core Vinyl Plank. Rigid Core can be either WPC (Wood-Plastic Composite, or Wood-Polymer Core) or SPC (Stone-Polymer Core). While most frequently designed to look like traditional hardwood flooring, the first letter -- “W” or “S” -- refers to the composition of the core layer alone. Similarly to LVP, Rigid Core WPC/SPC flooring is made up of layers, the combination of which leads to a flooring fit for residential, commercial, wet and dry spaces. The base layer is an attached underlayment of foam or cork, adding comfort underfoot and a small amount of sound absorption. On top of that is the core – where these Rigid Core flooring options get their names – made of a composite of wood or stone powder and plastic or resin. Immediately atop the core is the vinyl layer, using digital technology to add color and print perfection to your home. The icing on this flooring cake is the wear layer, bringing that scuff and scratch resistance. Unlike general LVP, WPC and SPC flooring is waterproof and can be installed in wet areas of both residential and commercial spaces. The wood in the core will not warp, buckle or swell if it comes into contact with water in normal day-to-day use. The advantages and disadvantages of SPC flooring ✔Advantage 1、Green environmental protection The main raw material of SPC floor is polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl chloride is environmental protection non-toxic renewable resources, it has long been widely used in People's Daily life, such as tableware, medical infusion tube bags, its environmental protection is not to worry about.SPC floor (sheet) is mainly composed of natural stone powder, which does not contain any radioactive elements detected by the national authority. It is a new type of green and environmental protection ground decoration material. 2. Ultra-light and ultra-thin SPC floor has a thickness of 3.2mm-12mm, the weight of each square meter is only about 2-7.5kg, less than 10% of the ordinary ground materials, in high-rise buildings for the building bearing and space saving, has an incomparable advantage.At the same time in the second decoration, reconstruction has a special advantage. 3. Super wear resistance SPC floor surface has a special transparent wear-resisting layer processed by high-tech, its wear-resisting revolution can reach 8000 turns above.The revolution of wear-resisting aggrandizement wood floor with relatively wear-resisting in traditional ground material has 800-4000 turn only. ✔Disadvantages 1.The shortcomings of stone plastic floor is also caused by "hard" "lock".Stone plastic floor to ensure the cost performance at the same time also let the lock become "brittle".So the pavement of the ground requires higher, otherwise the floor that has laid is useless how long, the lock that splicing place is cracked!Of course, stone plastic floor lock "brittle" this is determined by its product itself. 2.Stone plastic floor and other PVC floor, need to identify whether it is recycled production. Because the stone plastic floor has the characteristics of recycling (from the macro point of view, this is also very environmental significance), and the floor produced by the material can not determine the composition of the material, so the stability of the floor is difficult to get control.The physical and chemical properties of the recycled stone plastic floor are uncertain.Return material stone plastic floor generally have heavy metal exceed the standard, radiation exceed the standard, product structure is not stable. Some businesses will guide customers from the floor of the substrate color to determine whether the stone plastic floor is recycled production.The author's point is that this is unscientific and unrigorous.The general circulation on the market has black bottom and white bottom two colors of stone plastic floor.The black bottom is not necessarily return material production, and the white bottom is not entirely new material production.The colour is determined by the colour of the dye and the nature of the marble powder.If the titanium dioxide and marble powder is more pure white, the production must be white (even if the return material is added).If carbon black is added and marbling is grayish, the result will be black. To identify whether the stone plastic floor is back material, you can observe whether the cross section of the floor has pores and impurities, and you can also let the factory show the heavy metal detection report. 3、Stone plastic floor waterproof need to give it a definition Stone plastic floor is indeed formaldehyde free, but waterproof is not 100%, once someone asked, stone plastic floor can be used in the outdoor, even used in the bottom of the pool, the answer is, of course, no.We understand the structure of the stone plastic floor layer will be able to understand, stone plastic floor is not long-term soak in the water.But it works well in places that are prone to moisture, such as changing rooms in shower centers, hotel rooms, restaurants, and shopping malls. Advantages of WPC flooring WPC flooring, fully known as Wood Plastic Composition, originated in Germany, until 2011 began to become popular new environmentally friendly Wood Plastic composite.It is made of a certain proportion of wood powder and plastic by hot extrusion, which has various advantages of plastic and wood and can replace wood and plastic. It is completely consistent with the theme of forest protection and green environmental protection that is advocated today. ✔Advantage 1. Environmental protection material, ultra-light and ultra-thin 2. PVC is the main raw material of WPC flooring, because of its green environmental protection and renewable, it is often used in life and medical supplies closely related to human beings.The thickness of the floor is 1.6mm 3.-9mm, the weight of each flat is only 2-7kg, which can be called extremely light and thin.Greatly reduce the load of the building, save space. 4.High hardness, high elasticity, can be processed 5.WPC board contains plastic, so good elasticity, feet feel comfortable, known as the "soft gold ground material". 6. And because it contains wood fiber, it has the same mechanical properties as wood material, and even the surface hardness is higher than the latter, so that the durability is stronger. 7. Fire prevention, moisture-proof, anti-slip, anti-noise, antibacterial, corrosion resistance 8. BI fire rating, second only to stone.The vinyl resin that does not have affinity with water makes the floor won't because the surface touches water and produce mildew, won't because of water and slip easily more, because floor surface layer is more sticky water is more acerbate.Floor sound-absorbing can reach 20 decibel, fight acid fight alkali and the surface added antimicrobial agent, can inhibit the reproduction of great majority bacteria. 9.Convenient installation, small gap 10. The same installation method as the composite floor can be disassembled.The gap was so small that it was barely visible. The prosf Loose Lay Vinyl Floors Loose lay vinyl planks are a unique product that doesn’t rely on any fasteners, adhesive or even tongue and groove mechanisms to hold themselves in place. These thick vinyl rectangles simply lay in position on a floor, and remain there once installed. Loose lay vinyl flooring goes down quickly and it relies on friction to remain in place over time. The planks are essentially thick vinyl rectangles with rubber backing that lay flat over a nice smooth surface. Loose lay vinyl floors can be installed over top of existing flooring very rapidly and it’s simple for just about anyone to do. That’s why so many people are interested in this type of flooring and it’s the main reason that loose lay vinyl flooring is popular as well. It’s very simple to understand, and there aren’t many other products out on the market like this type of flooring either. Here are a few pros and cons of the flooring to help you decide if this is what you are looking for. We’re going to take the time to go over the benefits of loose lay vinyl options. This type of flooring is so simple to use and it’s very appealing as well. If you’re interested in improving the look of a floor or two in your home, this flooring is the perfect way for you to do it as you’ll soon see. Read on to learn all that loose lay vinyl planks have to offer. ✔Advantage 1.Simple Installation: As mentioned above, loose lay flooring is extremely easy to install. You do not need to use any kind of glue, staple or clicklock system to install this flooring. Instead, this flooring’s back uses friction to get a grip of the subfloor beneath it. Installers that are putting in loose lay vinyl flooring literally just have to set it into position. Sure there is some cutting required for installation with many of these kits, but it’s simple to do and doesn’t require any advanced skill. Installers just go around the room and lay down the planks quickly and easily. When you ask an installer to come to your home to put down loose lay vinyl planks, you’ll often receive an enthusiastic response, because most installers love to put the flooring down. It’s also common to pay less for installation of loose lay vinyl floors because they don’t take very long to put down at all. 2.Simple To Move: Another great advantage is that this flooring is just as easy to remove and re-install somewhere else. This means if you are changing houses, then you can take your flooring with you which would also help you save some money. This is a rare benefit that you won’t see with many other types of flooring. If you pay for loos lay vinyl options, you can move them to different rooms as you see fit, or even switch them to a new house without too much work on your part. Just make sure that you are going to a room that’s the same size or smaller if you want the flooring to look proper once it’s installed in your new space, or that you have some extra loose lay vinyl planks available. 3.Won’t Expand Or Contract: Many types of flooring expand and contracts with moisture, but this isn’t much of an issue with loose lay vinyl floors. The material is designed to resist any expansion or contraction, which means that you can count on the width of the flooring remaining the same. If you’ve ever been in an older home with wooden floors, you’ve likely seen expansion and contraction joints between the planks. That’s not an issue that you have to think about with loose lay vinyl flooring. That helps it continue looking like new for years and makes it good for areas where the floors might become damp with use. That’s why some people use this flooring in basements, kitchens, and bathrooms. 4.High Durability: On top of being moisture resistant, loose lay vinyl options are known for their durability as well. They will hold up for years without trouble as long as you care for them properly. Sure they are softer than some other flooring solutions and can be deformed or ripped if you aren’t careful, but as long as you treat loose lay vinyl flooring with care, it can last for decades without wearing too badly at all. 5.Absorbs Sound: Loose lay vinyl options are perfect for theater installations, or for the upstairs of homes or businesses. That’s because this flooring solution absorbs sounds nicely. Add them to the upstairs of your home and enjoy a reduction in noise almost instantly. Add them to your movie theater and you’ll notice that the noise is dampened a bit and that you enjoy higher quality sound overall throughout your space. I believe that after reading this article, you will know how to choose a suitable floor for your home, if you like my article, I hope you can give me a like, if you want to help more people with this demand, you can share my article out.If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me!