# What are the Pros and Cons of Vinyl Plank Flooring?

There are a handful of cons of vinyl plank flooring and in fact, carries more advantages. Vinyl plank flooring is one of the beautiful, affordable and comfortable products out there and in many cases resistant to water. In fact, you may get confused with the look of vinyl flooring with hardwood flooring. It is harder to tell the dissimilarity between hardwood and vinyl planks due to its decoration and 3D printing techniques. In this piece of writing, we will give you the information that you need to discover the pros and cons of vinyl plank and to choose good flooring for your home. We clarified the pros and cons of vinyl plank flooring as well as compare it with other floorings. In order to give better information about this product first, we explain vinyl plank flooring, and the differences between vinyl plank and vinyl sheet, LVP and LVT. What is vinyl plank flooring, precisely? You may have a lot of information about vinyl flooring but still, we want to clarify vinyl plank flooring in order to give you a better understanding of the pros and cons of vinyl flooring. Vinyl plank flooring comprises of multiple layers and is made of synthetic material. It primarily comes in planks which are made of type plastic known as PVC. The most basic vinyl plank comprises of three layers: base, design and surface. The base layer depends on the product but it is either flexible or rigid and provides the foundation. The design layer of vinyl planks gives appearance and feel. The design layer gives the imprint of tile, stone, wood or anything else. The surface layer is clear as crystal and guards the vinyl plank against any damage. Most of the vinyl flooring has extra two layers for underfoot feel and soundproofing. The thickness of vinyl flooring ranges from 1.5 to 5 mm. Vinyl flooring comes to market in many types and designs so you can choose any design and type such as rigid core, WPC vinyl and vinyl planks. Difference between Vinyl Plank and Vinyl Sheet Many people have often mistaken vinyl plank with the vinyl sheet. So, when they think about the cons of the vinyl plank they –in reality- think about the cons of vinyl sheet flooring. Vinyl sheet is an old product that our previous generations used for bathroom and kitchen flooring. Vinyl sheets were used to be sticky in summer and freezing in winter. But Vinyl plank flooring completely different product. Vinyl plank is thick, sold in planks like wood and bounce like real wood. Vinyl flooring is similar to wood flooring rather than a vinyl sheet. Remember, the cons of the vinyl sheet have nothing to do with vinyl planks. Difference between LVT and LVP You need to comprehend the difference between LVT and LVP because some of the pros and cons of vinyl plank relate to one of these products not the other. LVT stands for luxury vinyl tile and LVP stands for luxury vinyl plank. In appearance, luxury vinyl tile looks like a tile while luxury vinyl appears like a wood plank. Besides this, there is no other vital difference between LVT and LVP. Pros and Cons of Vinyl Plank Flooring I hope you understand everything about what vinyl plank is, now let’s discuss the pros and cons of vinyl plank flooring. Pros of Vinyl Plank Flooring Easy to maintain, affordable, scratch and water resistance, and comfortable are the qualities of vinyl plank flooring that marks it a great option for installing in your house. Water-resistant If you are looking for water-resistant flooring then vinyl plank flooring is a great option for you. Vinyl plank is made of plastic that is why highly resistant to water. Most of the vinyl floors are completely waterproof and budget friendly as well. This feature of vinyl plank flooring makes it impeccable to install in wet areas of your home that often get dirty. Substitute to best wood Floors There are many substitutes to hardwood floors but vinyl plank flooring is one of the great alternative products. It offers similar looks to hardwood floors. It even becomes harder to differentiate vinyl plank fake wood flooring from hardwood flooring. There is diversity in vinyl plank flooring types that looks like wood floor patterns and colours. Even if you want vinyl plank that looks like ebony or ash flooring, you can get it. There are too many options in vinyl plank flooring and you can get the look of any hardwood flooring. Easy to Install Vinyl plank flooring is easy to install. You can buy them even in click together form which creates a flawless surface. You can also choose a glue-down installation method for vinyl plank flooring. No matter whatever method of installation you choose, it is simple to install vinyl plank flooring as compared to other types of flooring. Simple and easy Maintenance Vinyl planks flooring does not need any special maintenance. It should be clean regularly but you don’t have to use luxurious cleaning products. Scratch Resistance Vinyl plank flooring is a great choice for scratch-resistant. It is rigid to scratch the Vinyl plank because of its ultra-durable layer that enhances its ability against scratch. The wear layer has a single disadvantage as that will be discussed in the cons section of vinyl plank flooring. Extremely Durable Besides being from scratch and water-resistant, vinyl plank flooring is durable and can last for decades. Many manufacturers of vinyl plank offer lifetime warranties. It is tough and the most durable one. Look like Anything Vinyl plank flooring comes in variety of looks and appearance. It can look like made it from granite. Also, it can look like slate tile. The point is, it can offer you many options to choose the suitable one for your home. Comfortable In terms of feel, the vinyl plank may not be as relaxed as carpet but it is superior in shock absorbent than other floors. Also, there are plenty of underlayment’s that you can use to enhance its comfort. Affordable The price range of vinyl plank differs but even high-quality vinyl plank flooring is inexpensive than wood floors. These are much more affordable as compare to engineered hardwood flooring which is over $15. Cons of Vinyl Plank Flooring No doubt vinyl is great but there are handful of disadvantages of vinyl plank flooring as well. Plus, we want to give you all the information about vinyl plank flooring to help you make a sound choice. The phrase ‘every coin has two sides is for a reason, therefore, we want to show another side of vinyl plank flooring down the road. Vulnerable to colour loss Some vinyl planks are vulnerable to sunlight exposure. One of vinyl plank disadvantages is that it requires great care and to be treated like a vampire. It means that the products can lose colour if exposed to sunlight for a long period of time. If you are installing vinyl plank in the area exposed to sunlight then you to make sure they have UV resistance in the wear layer. Also, there are many other methods that an installation specialist can tell you to protect your vinyl plank flooring from colour loss. Durable but can be dented It is super strong and durable but if something sharp and heavy hits it hard it can be dented. The heavy furniture that stands on the vinyl plank for a long time can dent it too. You do not have to worry about this because it is not a particularly big risk. It is just to give you information to not move pointy furniture in your house. Can Off Gas In the last few years, vinyl flooring has advanced its green stature. Vinyl is a synthetic product that generates toxic chemicals if burned. There is no option of recycling and does not decay in landfills. However, not all vinyl floors of gas a lot. The vinyl plank produce chemicals in small amounts and is not mainly hazardous for health. You can boldly choose low gas vinyl flooring options. It is Hard to Remove This is one of the critical disadvantages of vinyl flooring to remove the damaged plank. This is mainly because of the installation methodologies: snap together and glue down. If you have a glue-down floor it will allow you to take a single damaged plank without damaging other planks. But snap together floating floor will not allow you to take out a single damaged plank because all the planks are unified. So, we can say it is not the con of vinyl plank but of the installation methodology. It is Hard to Repair If you damage your vinyl plank floors, it would be hard if not possible to get them to look like a new one. You can use plenty of products to hide the damage and scratches but a close look will reveal its imperfection. You can’t much to repair if you damage the design layer of vinyl plank flooring.