# Which one is better: Vinyl or Laminate flooring?

Laminate and vinyl flooring both are attractive, durable and economical. You can install both types of flooring by yourself and from a distance, both look almost the same. However, there are various differences between laminate and vinyl flooring. Read this article to discover which is best for you. The manufacturers, over the years, upgraded and innovated flooring materials great for homeowners. Both vinyl and laminate flooring are affordable and durable and ideal options for your home. They come in different stones, styles and wood and sometimes it becomes hard to decide which is best for your home? There are a lot common and few contrasts between laminate and vinyl flooring. To decide which option is best for installing in your home, it is best to keep in mind the needs of the area you want to renovate. You need to consider different qualities of flooring that really matter in choosing floors. Keep reading this article to discover differences, pros and coins between vinyl and laminate flooring. Vinyl flooring Vinyl flooring is water-resistant and durable because it consists of multiple layers. The core layer of vinyl flooring is solid and thicker with wear and a printed vinyl layer on the top. The base layer is made of fibreglass and plasticizes. Thus, these materials protect vinyl flooring from water and enhance its ability to resist moisture. The thickness of vinyl flooring ranges from 1.5 to 5 mm. Vinyl flooring comes to market in many types so can choose any type such as rigid core, WPC vinyl and vinyl planks. Also, vinyl flooring comes in attractive looks and different patterns. Vinyl flooring offers more verity in design as compared to laminate flooring, and these floors resemble wood, ceramic and stone floors. Laminate flooring Laminate flooring was first manufactured in the 1970s. If you like the appearance of hardwood floors then laminate flooring is a great choice for you because it was a manufactured alternative to hardwood floors. As compare to hardwood floors laminate floors are less expensive. It works very well in hallways and living areas because its thick composition makes it comfortable to walk. Laminate floors are made of synthetic products which resemble hardwood. Its layers are similar to vinyl flooring but created from different products. The inner core bored of laminate flooring topped with overly guards your floors. The process of laminate flooring installation is similar to vinyl planks. Laminate flooring thickness range from 6 to 12 mm. Laminate and Vinyl flooring: Comparison Both of these types of flooring share similar qualities like being easy to install, and economical. These types of flooring come in different designs, patterns and colours. However, there are some differences listed below. Comparison in installation methods Click and lock method of installation used for laminate flooring. In the click and lock installation method one plank fits into the groove of another plank at an angle. Table saw circular saw with fine blade tooth can cut laminate planks. Also, the click and lock installation method is used for vinyl planks. You can even use a utility knife for cutting vinyl planks. However, steel vinyl planks which are heavy, large and wide are difficult to install by yourself. You will require the services of a professional installer to perform complicated cuts and install sheet vinyl. Resistance to water Water-resistance is one of the major differences between vinyl and laminate flooring. Vinyl flooring is better than laminate in water resistance because it is made of polymer materials which enhance its ability to withstand water. Vinyl floors can be dried in water and still you can use them as normal. Also, you can install a single sheet of vinyl flooring in a single room which does not allow water to leak through. As compared to vinyl, laminate is not good enough to resist moisture. Laminate flooring is made of fiberboard products that expose it to moisturisation. Thus, laminate flooring is not a very suitable option for wet moisture areas like bathrooms and laundry rooms. Design and appearance Laminate flooring is a bit in regards to looks and design. The appearance of laminate flooring can give authentic and realistic hardwood floors. On the other hand, vinyl flooring requires embossing techniques to look like hardwood floors. Both of these products build from different materials. Vinyl is made of synthetic materials. Its base layer is made of fibreglass embossed with a design. On the other hand, laminate is made of wood products and sealed with resin. Its surface is made of transparent plastic. As compared to vinyl flooring, laminate flooring is a bit thicker which enhance its comport ability. Cleaning and Maintenance Laminate flooring is a bit difficult to clean and care for because of its limited moisture resistance. However, methods like a dry mop and a broom are best to use for its caring. Other than these cons, laminate can be low maintenance. On the other hand, vinyl flooring is easy to maintain and clean. You can use even a wet mop for vinyl flooring. It does not need much cleaning and also allows you many cleaning methods. Sound and comfort Laminate flooring has a warm feeling and vinyl floors mostly feel hard and cold on the feet. Laminate flooring feels hollow but if you combined it with foam it can be softer, comfortable and quieter to walk on. Vinyl flooring feels hard and cold if you installed it on ceramic or concrete tile floors. Stain Resistance Laminate flooring has multiple layers, especially the top layer made of aluminium oxide is best for stain resistance. Also, the top layer of vinyl flooring coated with transparent urethane is great for stain resistance. Both vinyl and laminate flooring have excellent properties to resist stains. Environmental Impact Some manufacturers use a plastic surface layer and create the core of laminate flooring from melamine resins which are not green materials and may off-gas chemicals. In the last few years, vinyl flooring has upgraded its green stature. Vinyl is a synthetic product that generates toxic chemicals if burned. Also, there is no option of recycling and does not decompose in landfills. However, in regards to environmental impact laminate flooring has some advantages because of the wood content of the fiberboard core. But still, none of these products is environmental friendly as compared to natural wood. Resale value Laminate flooring provides extra value to your house if it is new and in good condition. Also, luxury vinyl options can add decent value to your house. Quality vinyl and laminate flooring will not put prospective home buyers. Durability and longevity Vinyl flooring is resilient, strong and durable. You may consider it of low quality because of its price but in reality, it’s durable. It can stand well for decades even in high traffic areas. Some vinyl floors can delaminate with the passage of time, however, that depends on the maintenance of the flooring. Laminate flooring is also durable and strong but susceptible to water resistance. Also, if you scratch it does not allow you to repair it. It can also last for one to two decades but that depends on care and maintenance. Cost Laminate and vinyl flooring are economically similar. Both of these are less expensive than porcelain tile or hardwood floors. There are various options available in vinyl flooring which can be expensive such as luxury flooring. The price of laminate flooring depends on the design and thickness of the flooring. High and luxury vinyl flooring has cost you more but also give you special options like a thicker wear layer and waterproof core. Which one should you buy? No flooring product is universally good or bad than other flooring products. Laminate flooring is good for dry areas and you can find a variety of options in laminate flooring. Vinyl flooring is moisture resistant and great for installing in wet areas like bathrooms and laundry rooms. If you are installing floors in wet areas of your home then vinyl is for you.